52. Heliyon. 2024 Sep 21;10(18):e38266. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e38266. 
eCollection 2024 Sep 30.

Assessing post-Covid-19 Lebanese teachers' attitudes towards ICT and their level 
of integration in the classroom in relation to their years of experience.

Chaiban T(1), Oweini A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Education and Social Sciences, Lebanese American University, 
Lebanon.

In this technological era, the implementation of Information and Communication 
Technology (ICT) into the learning environment is impacted by many factors, 
chief among them are those related to the teachers whose experience and attitude 
play a key role in the proper integration of technology. This study purports to 
investigate the effect of teachers' experience on their attitude towards ICT 
integration and their level of usage in the classroom. It used a quantitative 
descriptive method by adopting two surveys (Hernández-Ramos et al., 2014 and 
Sánchez et al., 2012) as the main instrument for data collection. The survey was 
administered in four English language private urban schools in Lebanon. This 
study shows that the teachers hold an overall positive attitude towards ICT 
integration in the classroom. However, no significant relationship between their 
attitude and years of experience is identified. While teachers demonstrate a 
moderate to low ICT usage, a significant negative correlation between their use 
of ICT in the classroom and their years of experience is evident. These findings 
are not consistent with the prevalent literature that tends to associate 
positive attitudes towards technology with higher usage of ICT in different 
educational settings around the world. Limitations of the study and 
recommendations for sustainable implementation of ICT in the classroom are 
provided.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e38266
PMCID: PMC11459051
PMID: 39381243

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.