37. Digit Health. 2024 Sep 16;10:20552076241281215. doi:
10.1177/20552076241281215.  eCollection 2024 Jan-Dec.

Bottom-up actions: Examining perceived influence of pandemic news, information 
relevance, perceived media credibility, and pro-community participation.

Tu C(1), Li X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Journalism and Communication, Shanghai University, Shanghai, China.

OBJECTIVE: When hyper-infectious diseases sweep over the world, pro-community 
participation has been found to effectively curb the spread of viruses. This 
study explores the associations among media-related perceptions and media users' 
pro-community participation during the peak of the 2022 COVID-19 outbreaks in 
China.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey was conducted among 976 Chinese media users in 
April 2022 to collect data on their pro-community participation and perceptions 
of pandemic news influence, information relevance, and credibility of 
traditional media and social media. Hierarchical regression analyses were run to 
analyze the associations between these perceptual variables and pro-community 
participation.
RESULTS: The findings revealed that information relevance was positively 
associated with perceived news influence on oneself and pro-community 
participation. Perceived credibility of traditional media was positively 
associated with perceived news influence on both oneself and others. Perceived 
credibility of social media was positively associated with perceived news 
influence on others. Additionally, perceived credibility of traditional media 
positively moderated the association between information relevance and perceived 
news influence on others.
CONCLUSIONS: Information relevance and perceived media credibility play 
significant roles in shaping media user' perceptions of news influence and their 
subsequent pro-community behaviors. Higher perceived media credibility can 
produce a broader impact on perceived news influence on both media users 
themselves and others, highlighting its importance in public health 
communication strategies. These insights can inform media practices and public 
health policies to enhance community participation during public health crises.

Â© The Author(s) 2024.

DOI: 10.1177/20552076241281215
PMCID: PMC11459497
PMID: 39381809

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.