47. Environ Res Lett. 2024 Nov 1;19(11):114023. doi: 10.1088/1748-9326/ad7747.
Epub  2024 Oct 7.

Impact of COVID-19 pandemic on greenhouse gas and criteria air pollutant 
emissions from the San Pedro Bay Ports and future policy implications.

Zhang J(1)(2), Park J(2), Bui N(2), Forestieri S(2), Mazmanian E(2), He Y(2), 
Parmer C(2), C Quiros D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, United States of America.
(2)California Air Resources Board, 1001 I St #2828, Sacramento, CA 95814, United 
States of America.

The Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, collectively known as the San Pedro Bay 
Ports, serve as vital gateways for freight movement in the United States. The 
COVID-19 pandemic and other influencing factors disrupted freight movement and 
led to unprecedented cargo surge, vessel congestion, and increased air pollution 
and greenhouse gas emissions from seaport and connected freight system 
operations beginning in June 2020. In this study, we conducted the first 
comprehensive monthly assessment of the excess particulate matter, oxides of 
nitrogen (NOx), and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions due to the heightened 
congestion and freight transport activity from ocean-going vessels (OGVs), 
trucks, locomotives, and cargo handling equipment (CHE) supporting seaport 
operations. Excess emissions peaked in October 2021 at 23 tons of NOx per day 
and 2001 tons of CO2 per day. The strategic queuing system implemented in 
November 2021 significantly reduced the number of anchored and loitering OGVs 
and their emissions near the ports, even during continued high cargo throughput 
until Summer 2022. Looking forward, we analyzed projected emissions benefits of 
adopted California Air Resources Board regulations requiring cleaner and 
zero-emission trucks, locomotives, and CHE over the next decade. If a repeated 
port congestion event were to occur in 2035, NOx emissions from land-based 
freight transport should be lessened by more than 80%. Our study underscores the 
potential emissions impacts of disruptions to the freight transport network and 
the critical need to continue reducing its emissions in California and beyond.

Â© 2024 The Author(s). Published by IOP Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1088/1748-9326/ad7747
PMCID: PMC11457959
PMID: 39381406