49. J Orthop Case Rep. 2024 Oct;14(10):213-218. doi: 
10.13107/jocr.2024.v14.i10.4868.

OrthoTV: Broadcasting Orthopedics around the World.

Jeyaraman M(1), Jayakumar T(2), Ramasubramanian S(3), Shyam A(4), Sancheti P(4), 
Bijlani N(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, ACS Medical College and Hospital, Dr MGR 
Educational and Research Institute, Chennai 600077, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics, KIMS-Sunshine Hospital, Hyderabad 500003, 
Telangana, India.
(3)Department of Orthopaedics, Government Medical College, Omandurar Government 
Estate, Chennai 600002, Tamil Nadu, India.
(4)Department of Orthopaedics, Sancheti Institute for Orthopaedics and 
Rehabilitation, Pune, Maharashtra, India.

OrthoTV has emerged as a pioneering platform in the field of orthopedic 
education, leveraging technology to create a comprehensive and accessible 
knowledge repository. Originating from the vision of the Indian Orthopedic 
Research Group in 2013, OrthoTV has evolved into a global educational hub, 
streaming thousands of hours of surgical videos, webinars, and podcasts. It 
provides a dynamic learning environment through live interactive sessions, 
fostering real-time engagement with experts and facilitating a global exchange 
of knowledge. OrthoTV's expansion during the COVID-19 pandemic underscored its 
vital role in continuing medical education amidst travel restrictions. The 
platform extends beyond educational resources to include career support, 
collaborative research initiatives, and even virtual fellowships, embodying a 
multifaceted approach to professional development. With the introduction of 
OrthoAI, OrthoTV integrates advanced artificial intelligence to offer 
personalized, evidence-based responses to queries, setting a new standard in 
digital medical education. This narrative review highlights OrthoTV's 
foundational principles, its significant impact on orthopedic education and 
practice, and its commitment to democratizing knowledge across the globe. 
OrthoTV's innovative use of technology bridges geographical barriers enriches 
learning experiences, and fosters a vibrant community of orthopedic 
professionals, marking a significant advance in the field of medical education.

Copyright: Â© Indian Orthopaedic Research Group.

DOI: 10.13107/jocr.2024.v14.i10.4868
PMCID: PMC11458242
PMID: 39381272

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Nil