76. Infect Dis Model. 2024 Sep 16;10(1):129-138. doi: 10.1016/j.idm.2024.09.006. 
eCollection 2025 Mar.

Impact of vaccination on Omicron's escape variants: Insights from fine-scale 
modelling of waning immunity in Hong Kong.

Zou Y(1), Lo WC(2), Ming WK(3), Yuan HY(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Jockey Club College of Veterinary Medicine 
and Life Sciences, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Department of Mathematics, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases and Public Health, City University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(4)Centre for Applied One Health Research and Policy Advice, Jockey Club College 
of Veterinary Medicine and Life Sciences, City University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong, China.

COVID-19 vaccine-induced protection declines over time. This waning of immunity 
has been described in modelling as a lower level of protection. This study 
incorporated fine-scale vaccine waning into modelling to predict the next surge 
of the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In Hong Kong, the Omicron 
subvariant BA.2 caused a significant epidemic wave between February and April 
2022, which triggered high vaccination rates. About half a year later, a second 
outbreak, dominated by a combination of BA.2, BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants, began 
to spread. We developed mathematical equations to formulate continuous changes 
in vaccine boosting and waning based on empirical serological data. These 
equations were incorporated into a multi-strain discrete-time 
Susceptible-Exposed-Infectious-Removed model. The daily number of reported cases 
during the first Omicron outbreak, with daily vaccination rates, the population 
mobility index and daily average temperature, were used to train the model. The 
model successfully predicted the size and timing of the second surge and the 
variant replacement by BA.4/5. It estimated 655,893 cumulative reported cases 
from June 1, 2022 to 31 October 2022, which was only 2.69% fewer than the 
observed cumulative number of 674,008. The model projected that increased 
vaccine protection (by larger vaccine coverage or no vaccine waning) would 
reduce the size of the second surge of BA.2 infections substantially but would 
allow more subsequent BA.4/5 infections. Increased vaccine coverage or greater 
vaccine protection can reduce the infection rate during certain periods when the 
immune-escape variants co-circulate; however, new immune-escape variants spread 
more by out-competing the previous strain.

Â© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.idm.2024.09.006
PMCID: PMC11459622
PMID: 39380722

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.