72. Int J Stress Manag. 2024 May;31(2):130-147. doi: 10.1037/str0000318. Epub
2024  Jan 11.

Differential effects of COVID-19 stressor types on mental health and moderating 
roles of coping strategies.

Emrich M(1), Park CL(1), Russell BS(2), Fendrich M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, 
USA.
(2)Department of Human Development and Family Studies, University of 
Connecticut, Storrs, CT, USA.
(3)School of Social Work, University of Connecticut, Hartford, CT, USA.

Stress exposure often leads to poor mental health, but whether certain types of 
stressors predict differential levels of mental health symptoms and whether 
coping differentially moderates these associations remain untested. This study 
examined whether COVID-19 stressor types (financial-, activity-, and 
infection-related) differentially predicted subsequent mental health (general 
distress, posttraumatic stress symptoms (PTSS), and positive states of mind) and 
whether different types of coping moderated these relationships. In April, 2020, 
questionnaires assessing the impact of COVID-19 on daily life were administered 
to an adult sample across the US (N = 1,546); 861 (55.7%) of whom completed 
questionnaires one month later. Nearly all stressor types independently 
predicted each aspect of mental health. Behavioral disengagement moderated links 
between both activity- and infection-related stressors and mental health. 
Seeking emotional social support moderated links between infection-related 
stressors and both general distress and positive states of mind as well as 
activity-related stressors and general distress. Positive reappraisal moderated 
links between financial-related stressors and positive states of mind. 
Acceptance coping predicted better mental health but was not a significant 
moderator. Stressor types and coping strategies are important determinants of 
effects of COVID-19 on mental health; our findings suggest possible screening 
and intervention implications and directions for future research.

DOI: 10.1037/str0000318
PMCID: PMC11458147
PMID: 39380747

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure Statement: The authors report that 
there are no competing interests to declare.