1. Interact J Med Res. 2024 Oct 9;13:e47370. doi: 10.2196/47370.

Changes in the Epidemiological Features of Influenza After the COVID-19 Pandemic 
in China, the United States, and Australia: Updated Surveillance Data for 
Influenza Activity.

Jiang M(1), Jia M(2), Wang Q(1), Sun Y(1), Xu Y(1), Dai P(3), Yang W(1), Feng 
L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Population Medicine and Public Health, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(2)National Institute of Pathogen Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(3)Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: There has been a global decrease in seasonal influenza activity 
since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to describe influenza activity during the 2021/2022 season 
and compare it to the trends from 2012 to 2023. We also explored the influence 
of social and public health prevention measures during the COVID-19 pandemic on 
influenza activity.
METHODS: We obtained influenza data from January 1, 2012, to February 5, 2023, 
from publicly available platforms for China, the United States, and Australia. 
Mitigation measures were evaluated per the stringency index, a composite index 
with 9 measures. A general additive model was used to assess the stringency 
index and the influenza positivity rate correlation, and the deviance explained 
was calculated.
RESULTS: We used over 200,000 influenza surveillance data. Influenza activity 
remained low in the United States and Australia during the 2021/2022 season. 
However, it increased in the United States with a positive rate of 26.2% in the 
49th week of 2022. During the 2021/2022 season, influenza activity significantly 
increased compared with the previous year in southern and northern China, with 
peak positivity rates of 28.1% and 35.1% in the second week of 2022, 
respectively. After the COVID-19 pandemic, the dominant influenza virus genotype 
in China was type B/Victoria, during the 2021/2022 season, and accounted for 
>98% (24,541/24,908 in the South and 20,543/20,634 in the North) of all cases. 
Influenza virus type B/Yamagata was not detected in all these areas after the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Several measures individually significantly influence local 
influenza activity, except for influenza type B in Australia. When combined with 
all the measures, the deviance explained values for influenza A and B were 87.4% 
(P<.05 for measures of close public transport and restrictions on international 
travel) and 77.6% in southern China and 83.4% (P<.05 for measures of school 
closing and close public transport) and 81.4% in northern China, respectively. 
In the United States, the association was relatively stronger, with 
deviance-explained values of 98.6% for influenza A and 99.1% (P<.05 for measures 
of restrictions on international travel and public information campaign) for 
influenza B. There were no discernible effects on influenza B activity in 
Australia between 2020 and 2022 due to the incredibly low positive rate of 
influenza B. Additionally, the deviance explained values were 95.8% (P<.05 for 
measures of restrictions on gathering size and restrictions on international 
travel) for influenza A and 72.7% for influenza B.
CONCLUSIONS: Influenza activity has increased gradually since 2021. Mitigation 
measures for COVID-19 showed correlations with influenza activity, mainly driven 
by the early stage of the pandemic. During late 2021 and 2022, the influence of 
mitigation management for COVID-19 seemingly decreased gradually, as the 
activity of influenza increased compared to the 2020/2021 season.

Â©Mingyue Jiang, Mengmeng Jia, Qing Wang, Yanxia Sun, Yunshao Xu, Peixi Dai, 
Weizhong Yang, Luzhao Feng. Originally published in the Interactive Journal of 
Medical Research (https://www.i-jmr.org/), 09.10.2024.

DOI: 10.2196/47370
PMID: 39382955