97. Infect Dis Poverty. 2024 Oct 8;13(1):71. doi: 10.1186/s40249-024-01234-z.

Global burden of viral infectious diseases of poverty based on Global Burden of 
Diseases Study 2021.

Li XC(#)(1)(2), Zhang YY(#)(1)(2), Zhang QY(#)(1)(2), Liu JS(1)(2), Ran JJ(3), 
Han LF(1)(2), Zhang XX(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Global Health, Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Institute of One Health, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)School of Public Health, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(4)School of Global Health, Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China. zhangxiaoxi@sjtu.edu.cn.
(5)Institute of One Health, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, People's 
Republic of China. zhangxiaoxi@sjtu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Viral infectious diseases of poverty (vIDPs) remain a significant 
global health challenge. Despite their profound impact, the burden of these 
diseases is not comprehensively quantified. This study aims to analyze the 
global burden of six major vIDPs, including coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), 
HIV/AIDS, acute hepatitis, dengue, rabies, and Ebola virus disease (EVD), using 
data from the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study 2021 
(GBD 2021).
METHODS: Following the GBD 2021 framework, we analyzed the incidence, mortality, 
and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) of the six vIDPs across 204 countries 
and territories from 1990 to 2021. We examined the association between the 
Socio-Demographic Index (SDI) and the burden of vIDPs. All estimates were 
reported as numbers and rates per 100,000 population, calculated using the 
Bayesian statistical model employed by GBD 2021, with 95% uncertainty intervals 
(UI).
RESULTS: In 2021, vIDPs caused approximately 8.7 million deaths and 259.2 
million DALYs, accounting for 12.8% and 9.0% of the global all-cause totals, 
respectively. Globally, the burden of vIDPs varied significantly: COVID-19 
caused around 7.9 million (95% UI: 7.5, 8.4) deaths and 212.0 million (95% UI 
197.9, 234.7) DALYs in 2021. Acute hepatitis had the second-highest 
age-standardized incidence rate, with 3411.5 (95% UI: 3201.8, 3631.3) per 
100,000 population, while HIV/AIDS had a high age-standardized prevalence rate, 
with 483.1 (95% UI: 459.0, 511.4) per 100,000 population. Dengue incidence cases 
rose from 26.5 million (95% UI: 3.9, 51.9) in 1990 to 59.0 million (95% UI: 
15.5, 106.9) in 2021. Rabies, although reduced in prevalence, continued to pose 
a significant mortality risk. EVD had the lowest overall burden but significant 
outbreak impacts. Age-standardized DALY rates for vIDPs were significantly 
negatively correlated with SDI: acute hepatitis (r = -0.8, P < 0.0001), rabies 
(r = -0.7, P < 0.0001), HIV/AIDS (r = -0.6, P < 0.0001), COVID-19 (r = -0.5, 
P < 0.0001), dengue (r = -0.4, P < 0.0001), and EVD (r = -0.2, P < 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: VIDPs pose major public health challenges worldwide, with 
significant regional, age, and gender disparities. The results underscore the 
need for targeted interventions and international cooperation to mitigate the 
burden of these diseases. Policymakers can use these findings to implement 
cost-effective interventions and improve health outcomes, particularly in 
regions with high or increasing burdens.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40249-024-01234-z
PMID: 39380070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]