57. Chonnam Med J. 2024 Sep;60(3):166-173. doi: 10.4068/cmj.2024.60.3.166. Epub
2024  Sep 25.

Corticosteroid Therapy Duration and Dosage According to the Timing of Treatment 
Initiation for Post-COVID-19 Organizing Pneumonia.

Yoon CS(1), Park HK(1), Lee JK(1), Kho BG(1), Kim TO(1), Shin HJ(1), Kwon YS(1), 
Lim SC(1), Kim YI(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chonnam National 
University Hospital, Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, Korea.

COVID-19 can lead to pulmonary complications, including organizing pneumonia. 
Steroids are essential in treating post-COVID-19 organizing pneumonia. However, 
research on the clinical benefits of initiating steroid treatment early for this 
condition is limited. To investigate the steroid initiation time in its 
association with treatment duration and corticosteroid dose for treating 
post-COVID-19 organizing pneumonia, we analyzed the data of 91 patients with 
post-COVID-19 organizing pneumonia at Chonnam National University Hospital 
between October 2020 and December 2022. Patients were categorized into early and 
late groups based on time from COVID-19 diagnosis to steroid initiation time for 
organizing pneumonia. The mean time interval between COVID-19 infection and 
steroid initiation time for treating organizing pneumonia, was 18.4±8.6 days. 
Within the early treatment group (treatment initiated <18.4 days after 
COVID-19), which included 55 patients, the mean duration of steroid treatment 
was 43.1±18.3days. In contrast, the late treatment group (initiated ≥18.4 days 
after COVID-19), which consisted of 36 patients, had a longer mean duration of 
steroid treatment 59.1±22.6 days) (p<0.01). Regarding corticosteroid dosing, the 
early treatment group had an average dosage of 0.5±0.3 mg/kg/day, in contrast to 
the late group, which averaged 0.8±0.3 mg/kg/day (p<0.01). Regression analysis 
showed steroid initiation time significantly influenced treatment duration 
(β=0.80 , p<0.01) and dosage (β=0.03, p<0.01). The clinical benefits of early 
steroid treatment for post-COVID-19 organizing pneumonia may lie in its 
association with reduced steroid treatment duration and dosage.

© Chonnam Medical Journal, 2024.

DOI: 10.4068/cmj.2024.60.3.166
PMCID: PMC11458313
PMID: 39381118

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT: None declared.