14. Mikrochim Acta. 2024 Oct 9;191(11):657. doi: 10.1007/s00604-024-06697-3.

Au@Pt nanoparticles-based signal-enhanced lateral flow immunoassay for 
ultrasensitive naked-eye detection of SARS-CoV-2.

Li X(1), Li H(1), Zhu JY(1), Yu D(1), Abulaiti T(2), Zeng J(1), Wen CY(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, China University of Petroleum 
(East China), Qingdao, 266580, PR China.
(2)Petrochina Urumqi Petrochemical Quality Inspection Center, Urumqi, 830019, PR 
China.
(3)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, China University of Petroleum 
(East China), Qingdao, 266580, PR China. flcyxt@163.com.

With SARS-CoV-2 N protein as a model target, a signal-enhanced LFIA based on 
Au@Pt nanoparticles (NPs) as labels is proposed. This Au@Pt NPs combined the 
distinguished localized surface plasma resonance (LSPR) effect of Au NPs and the 
ultrahigh peroxidase-like catalytic activity of Pt NPs. Au@Pt NPs could trigger 
substrate chromogenic reaction, generating a color signal orders of magnitude 
darker than their intrinsic color. In the detection, after the coloration of the 
strips, 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) and H2O2 were added, and a dark 
blue chelate (OxTMB) was produced soon, enhancing the band color significantly. 
After the signal amplification, the naked-eye detection limit for N protein 
reached 40 pg/mL. The detection sensitivity enhanced more than 1000 times than 
that without signal amplification. Compared with mainstream LFIA requiring 
complex readout instruments, the Au@Pt-based LFIA achieved a comparable 
sensitivity using naked eyes detection. This point is crucial, especially for 
unprofessional users or low-resource areas. Hence, this signal-enhanced LFIA may 
serve as a sensitive, cost-effective, and user-friendly detection method. It can 
shorten the testing window period and help identify early infections.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00604-024-06697-3
PMID: 39382589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]