30. Arts Health. 2024 Oct 9:1-14. doi: 10.1080/17533015.2024.2410811. Online
ahead  of print.

"We're still seeing people on the screen, we still keeping our bodies moving": 
exploring the transition from face to face to online dance classes for 
community-dwelling older adults during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Pina I(1), Britten L(1), Astill S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.

BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 outbreak meant that people were unable to attend 
art-based community classes such as dance. In response, activities transitioned 
to digital modes of delivery. In this study, we aimed to explore the 
feasibility, inclusivity, and impact of transitioning to an online dance class.
METHODS: Thirty community-dwelling older adults (59-84 years old) were recruited 
from community groups in Yorkshire (UK). Participants completed an online survey 
at baseline and after attending 8 weeks of online dance classes. The survey 
captured perceived benefits on physical activity and mental wellbeing. Two 
separate focus groups (N = 12) were conducted to explore if the online dance 
transition could be an opportunity to keep this group active and socially 
connected.
RESULTS: Survey data revealed no significant difference in the amount of time 
engaged in physical activity, but mental wellbeing significantly improved. 
Themes from the focus groups included holistic wellbeing related to the 
experience of dance, inclusive participation of online dance, and online dance 
facilitating social connection and sense of belonging.
CONCLUSIONS: The research provided insight into the online transition of a dance 
class for older adults, especially regarding inclusivity, sense of belonging and 
social connection.

DOI: 10.1080/17533015.2024.2410811
PMID: 39381926