73. Front Med (Lausanne). 2024 Sep 24;11:1461801. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2024.1461801.
 eCollection 2024.

Opportunistic infections changed before and after SARS-CoV-2 infection in 
inflammatory bowel disease patients: a retrospective single-center study in 
China.

Fan Z(#)(1), Zhou H(#)(1), Zhang J(1), Liu X(1), Wu T(1), Shi Y(1), Lin J(1), 
Liang J(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Holistic Integrative Management of Gastrointestinal 
Cancers and National Clinical Research Center for Digestive Diseases, Xijing 
Hospital of Digestive Diseases, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: SARS-CoV-2 transmission has become a serious worldwide public health 
concern. However, there is currently insufficient data to determine whether 
SARS-CoV-2 infection would affect opportunistic infections in inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD) patients.
METHODS: A retrospective study included 451 IBD patients (294 UC and 157 CD). 
The IBD patients were divided into two groups: before SARS-CoV-2 infection and 
after SARS-CoV-2 infection, and outcomes were measured for these groups. The 
primary outcome was the presence and distribution of opportunistic infections. 
The secondary outcomes included factors associated with opportunistic 
infections, based on which a nomogram prediction model was developed and 
validated.
RESULTS: After SARS-CoV-2 infection, the proportion of IBD patients with 
opportunistic infections by Clostridium difficile (21.31% vs. 14.01%, p = 0.044) 
and Epstein-Barr virus (13.93% vs. 4.35%, p = 0.001) was significantly higher 
compared to that before. Conversely, the proportion of patients with hepatitis B 
virus (3.69% vs. 10.14%, p = 0.006) and herpes simplex virus type I (1.23% vs. 
4.35%, p = 0.04) infections was significantly lower after the infection. 
Additionally, pre-SARS-CoV-2 infection factors associated with opportunistic 
infections in IBD include duration of illness, red blood cell count, the 
presence of comorbid chronic illnesses, and alcohol consumption, while 
post-SARS-CoV-2 infection, the primary risk factors involve corticosteroid use, 
red blood cell count, protein level, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein.
CONCLUSION: After the SARS-CoV-2 infection, there has been a shift in the 
occurrence of opportunistic infections among IBD patients. It might be 
attributed to the use of corticosteroids and also the strengthening of 
containment measures, heightened public health awareness, and widespread 
vaccination.

Copyright © 2024 Fan, Zhou, Zhang, Liu, Wu, Shi, Lin and Liang.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2024.1461801
PMCID: PMC11460596
PMID: 39380736

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.