33. Cyberpsychol Behav Soc Netw. 2024 Oct 9. doi: 10.1089/cyber.2024.0152. Online
 ahead of print.

Enhancing or Compensating? Role of On- and Offline Social Capital and 
Technological Self-Efficacy on Subjective Well-Being among Immigrants and 
Natives.

Yoo N(1), Jang SH(2).

Author information:
(1)Silver School of Social Work, New York University, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Sociology, Korea University, Seongbuk-gu, Korea.

The ability and self-efficacy to utilize the internet and technological devices 
has become critical during the COVID-19 pandemic. By examining the role of on- 
and offline social capital as a moderator in the relationship between 
technological self-efficacy (TSE) and subjective well-being, this study aims to 
contribute to the understanding of whether the social compensation or social 
enhancement hypotheses explain the well-being of immigrants in South Korea 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. We analyzed data from the 2020 Digital Divide 
Survey of immigrants (n = 700) and native-born Koreans (n = 6,910) aged â‰¥18 
years. In the ordinary least squares regression model, subjective well-being 
(SWB) was the dependent variable and TSE was the independent variable. Online 
social capital, including bonding and bridging, was the moderating variable. 
Moreover, we tested the moderated moderation of nativity and on- and offline 
social capital. The results showed that bonding and bridging on- and offline 
social capital played a positive role in the SWB of both immigrants and 
native-born Koreans; bridging played a greater role among immigrants than among 
native-born Koreans. Furthermore, the interaction between TSE and online bonding 
social capital has a stronger association with the SWB of immigrants, as 
supported by the moderated moderation model. In line with the social enhancement 
hypothesis, immigrants with more online bonding social capital showed a stronger 
positive association between TSE and subjective well-being. Our results suggest 
that culturally adapted technological education for immigrants can be tailored 
to meet their unique needs and experiences.

DOI: 10.1089/cyber.2024.0152
PMID: 39381858