83. Nucleic Acids Res. 2024 Oct 9:gkae874. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkae874. Online ahead
of  print.

A compact stem-loop DNA aptamer targets a uracil-binding pocket in the 
SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid RNA-binding domain.

Esler MA(1)(2)(3), Belica CA(1)(2)(3), Rollie JA(1)(2)(3), Brown WL(1)(2)(3), 
Moghadasi SA(1)(2)(3), Shi K(1)(2)(3), Harki DA(2)(3)(4), Harris RS(5)(6), 
Aihara H(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Biophysics, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.
(2)Institute for Molecular Virology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 
MN 55455, USA.
(3)Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.
(4)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 
MN 55455, USA.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Structural Biology, University of Texas Health 
San Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78229, USA.
(6)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Texas Health San Antonio, San 
Antonio, TX 78229, USA.

SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (N) protein is a structural component of the virus with 
essential roles in the replication and packaging of the viral RNA genome. The N 
protein is also an important target of COVID-19 antigen tests and a promising 
vaccine candidate along with the spike protein. Here, we report a compact 
stem-loop DNA aptamer that binds tightly to the N-terminal RNA-binding domain of 
SARS-CoV-2 N protein. Crystallographic analysis shows that a hexanucleotide DNA 
motif (5'-TCGGAT-3') of the aptamer fits into a positively charged concave 
surface of N-NTD and engages essential RNA-binding residues including Tyr109, 
which mediates a sequence-specific interaction in a uracil-binding pocket. Avid 
binding of the DNA aptamer allows isolation and sensitive detection of 
full-length N protein from crude cell lysates, demonstrating its selectivity and 
utility in biochemical applications. We further designed a chemically modified 
DNA aptamer and used it as a probe to examine the interaction of N-NTD with 
various RNA motifs, which revealed a strong preference for uridine-rich 
sequences. Our studies provide a high-affinity chemical probe for the SARS-CoV-2 
N protein RNA-binding domain, which may be useful for diagnostic applications 
and investigating novel antiviral agents.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkae874
PMID: 39380503