56. Chonnam Med J. 2024 Sep;60(3):180-186. doi: 10.4068/cmj.2024.60.3.180. Epub
2024  Sep 25.

Resilience Gap in Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Activity during the COVID-19 
Pandemic in South Korea.

Kim HY(1), Yang JH(1), Kweon SS(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Chonnam National University Medical 
School, Hwasun, Korea.
(2)Gwangju Institute for Public Health and Equity, Gwangju, Korea.
(3)Gwangju-Jeonnam Regional Cancer Center, Chonnam National University Hwasun 
Hospital, Hwasun, Korea.

This study assessed the impact of distancing measures during the COVID-19 
pandemic on cancer diagnostic activities, including gastrointestinal endoscopy 
(GIE). It analyzed GIE volumes from 2020 to 2022 in comparison to 2018-2019, 
considering variations in resilience linked to socioeconomic status (SES). The 
analysis utilized data from the Korean Health Insurance Review and Assessment 
Services database, covering the entire population and medical facilities. 
Diagnostic GIE rates (2018-2022) in Gwangju Metropolitan City and Jeonnam 
province were examined, comparing age-standardized rates (ASRs) by area, gender, 
and SES. The results indicated a decline in ASRs for colonoscopy and endoscopic 
gastroduodenoscopy (EGD) in 2020 compared to 2018-2019, followed by an increase 
in 2021-2022, except for EGD in the medical aid population. SES based and 
rural-urban disparities were evident in the recovery of GIE rates. The findings 
suggest that equity-focused strategies are needed to ensure equitable healthcare 
access among different socioeconomic groups after pandemic.

Â© Chonnam Medical Journal, 2024.

DOI: 10.4068/cmj.2024.60.3.180
PMCID: PMC11458310
PMID: 39381121

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT: None declared.