45. Cureus. 2024 Sep 8;16(9):e68936. doi: 10.7759/cureus.68936. eCollection 2024 
Sep.

Erythroderma Following Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccination in a Patient With 
Atopic Dermatitis: A Case Report.

Handal M(1), Aoki KC(1), Bartos S(2).

Author information:
(1)Medicine, Dr. Kiran C. Patel College of Osteopathic Medicine, Nova 
Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, USA.
(2)Dermatology, Imperial Dermatology, Hollywood, USA.

Cutaneous adverse reactions to mRNA COVID-19 vaccines in patients with 
preexisting dermatologic disease include bullous eruptions, pityriasis rubra 
pilaris, dermatomyositis, and granuloma annulare. Erythroderma is a rare but 
severe adverse reaction not previously seen. This case report describes the 
development of erythroderma in a 73-year-old male with a history of atopic 
dermatitis, with widespread erythema and scaling covering 95% of his body 
surface area, which developed sequentially after receiving each dose of the 
Pfizer-BioNTech (BNT162b2) COVID-19 vaccination. The patient's condition 
improved significantly with appropriate dermatologic treatment, including 
systemic and topical corticosteroids and dupilumab. Thus, it is imperative to 
recognize erythroderma as a potential side effect of the Pfizer-BioNTech 
COVID-19 vaccine, particularly in patients with preexisting dermatologic 
conditions. Early diagnosis and treatment are vital for managing this 
potentially life-threatening reaction and preventing severe complications.

Copyright Â© 2024, Handal et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.68936
PMCID: PMC11461041
PMID: 39381449

Conflict of interest statement: Human subjects: Consent was obtained or waived 
by all participants in this study. Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.