48. Rev Bras Ginecol Obstet. 2024 May 27;46:e-rbgo64. doi:
10.61622/rbgo/2024rbgo64.  eCollection 2024.

Tubal ectopic pregnancy: comparative management between pre and Covid-19 
pandemic periods.

Chaves LT(1), Maia R(1), Borges Peixoto A(2)(3), Araujo E(1), Elito J(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de São Paulo Escola Paulista de Medicina Department of 
Obstetrics São PauloSP Brazil Department of Obstetrics, Escola Paulista de 
Medicina, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)Universidade de Uberaba Mário Palmério University Hospital Gynecology and 
Obstetrics Service UberabaMG Brazil Gynecology and Obstetrics Service, Mário 
Palmério University Hospital, Universidade de Uberaba, Uberaba, MG, Brazil.
(3)Universidade Federal do Triângulo Mineiro Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology UberabaMG Brazil Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Universidade Federal do Triângulo Mineiro, Uberaba, MG, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether there were differences in the presentation of 
patients with tubal ectopic pregnancy (EP) during the first year of the COVID-19 
pandemic.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study of all cases of tubal EP 
between March 2019 and March 2020 (pre-pandemic) and between March 2020 and 
March 2021 (pandemic). We compared between these two groups the risk factors, 
clinical characteristics, laboratory data, sonographic aspects, treatment 
applied and complications.
RESULTS: We had 150 EP diagnoses during the two years studied, of which 135 were 
tubal EP. Of these, 65 were included in the pre-pandemic and 70 in the pandemic 
period. The prevalence of lower abdominal pain was significantly higher in the 
pandemic compared to the pre-pandemic period (91.4% vs. 78.1%, p=0.031). There 
was no significant difference in shock index, initial beta-hCG level, hemoglobin 
level at diagnosis, days of menstrual delay, aspect of the adnexal mass, amount 
of free fluid on ultrasound, and intact or ruptured presentation between the 
groups. Expectant management was significantly higher during the pandemic period 
(40.0% vs. 18.5%, p=0.008), surgical management was lower during the pandemic 
period (47.1% vs. 67.7%, p=0.023), and number of days hospitalized was lower in 
the pandemic period (1.3 vs. 2.0 days, p=0.003).
CONCLUSION: We did not observe a significant difference in patient history, 
laboratory and ultrasound characteristics. Abdominal pain was more common during 
the pandemic period. Regarding treatment, we observed a significant increase in 
expectant and a decrease in surgical cases during the pandemic period.

© 2024. Federação Brasileira de Ginecologia e Obstetrícia. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.61622/rbgo/2024rbgo64
PMCID: PMC11460413
PMID: 39381345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts to interest: none to declare.