42. J Trauma Inj. 2023 Dec;36(4):343-353. doi: 10.20408/jti.2023.0053. Epub 2023
Dec  22.

Comparison of pediatric injury patterns before and during the COVID-19 pandemic 
in Korea: a retrospective study.

Nam GP(1), Choi WS(1), Cho JS(1)(2), Lim YS(1)(2), Woo JH(1)(2), Jang JH(1)(2), 
Choi JY(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, 
Incheon, Korea.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Gachon University College of Medicine, 
Incheon, Korea.

PURPOSE: The COVID-19 pandemic led to significant changes in the lifestyle 
patterns of children and affected the patterns of pediatric injuries. This study 
analyzed the changing patterns of pediatric injury overall and by age groups, 
based on the datasets before and during the COVID-19 pandemic.
METHODS: This study is based on the data of patients who presented with injuries 
at 23 hospital emergency departments participating in the Emergency 
Department-based Injury In-depth Surveillance (EDIIS) conducted by the Korea 
Disease Control and Prevention Agency. The surveillance data was categorized by 
injury mechanism, location, activity, and severity. We analyzed the injury 
patterns of pediatric patients aged 0 to 15 years. Subgroup analysis was 
conducted by age group in children aged 7 to 15 years, 1 to 6 years, and <1 
year.
RESULTS: When comparing the COVID-19 pandemic period to the pre-COVID-19 period, 
the total number of pediatric patients with injuries decreased by 38.7%, while 
the proportions of in-home injuries (57.9% vs. 67.9%), and minor injuries (38.9% 
vs. 39.7%) increased. In the 7 to 15 years group, bicycle riding injuries (50.9% 
vs. 65.6%) and personal mobility device injuries (2.4% vs. 4.6%) increased. The 
1 to 6 years group also showed an increase in bicycle accident injuries (15.8% 
vs. 22.4%). In the <1 year group, injuries from falls increased (44.5% vs. 
49.9%). Self-harm injuries in the 7 to 15 years group also increased (1.6% vs. 
2.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: During the COVID-19 pandemic period, the overall number of 
pediatric injuries decreased, while injuries occurring at home and during indoor 
activities increased. Traffic accidents involving bicycles and personal mobility 
devices and self-harm injuries increased in the 7 to 15 years group. In the <1 
year group, the incidence of falls increased. Medical and societal preparedness 
is needed so that we might anticipate these changes in the patterns of pediatric 
injuries during future infectious disease pandemics.

Â© 2023 The Korean Society of Traumatology.

DOI: 10.20408/jti.2023.0053
PMCID: PMC11309247
PMID: 39381577

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.