51. Heliyon. 2024 Aug 21;10(18):e36410. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e36410. 
eCollection 2024 Sep 30.

Influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis via sensitive testing methods in 
clinical application.

Zhang L(1)(2), Li C(3), Shao S(1), Zhang Z(4), Chen D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.
(2)School of Ecology and Environment, Tibet University, Lhasa 850000, China.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing 400010, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of New Textile Materials and Advanced Processing 
Technologies, School of Bioengineering and Health, Wuhan Textile University, 
Wuhan, 430200, China.

The identification of influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2 has garnered increasing 
attention due of their longstanding global menace to human life and health. The 
point-of-care test is a potential approach for identifying influenza viruses and 
SARS-CoV-2 in clinical settings, leading to timely discovery, documentation, and 
treatment. The primary difficulties encountered with conventional detection 
techniques for influenza viruses and SARS-CoV-2 are the limited or inadequate 
ability to identify the presence of the viruses, the lack of speed, precision, 
accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity, often resulting in a failure to promptly 
notify disease control authorities. Recently, point-of-care test methods, along 
with nucleic acid amplification, optics, electrochemistry, lateral/vertical 
flow, and minimization, have been demonstrated the characteristics of 
reliability, sensitivity, specificity, stability, and portability. A 
point-of-care test offers promising findings in the early detection of influenza 
viruses and SARS-CoV-2 in both scientific research and practical use. In this 
review, we will go over the principles, advantages, limitations, and real-world 
applications of point-of-care diagnostics. The significance of constraints of 
detection, throughput, sensitivity, and specificity in the analysis of clinical 
samples in settings with restricted resources is underscored. This discussion 
concludes with their prospects and challenges.

Â© 2024 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e36410
PMCID: PMC11458974
PMID: 39381246

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.