55. Chonnam Med J. 2024 Sep;60(3):141-146. doi: 10.4068/cmj.2024.60.3.141. Epub
2024  Sep 25.

Investigating the Role of Serotonin Levels in Cognitive Impairments Associated 
with Long COVID-19.

Eslami Z(1), Joshaghani H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Hamadan University of Medical Science, 
Hamadan, Iran.
(2)Laboratory Sciences Research Center, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, 
Golestan, Iran.

This study aimed to investigate the activation of the inflammation process, 
triggered as an immune response to combat the invasion by the severe acute 
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). SARS-CoV-2 is a highly 
transmissible and pathogenic coronavirus that emerged in late 2019 and has 
caused a pandemic of acute respiratory disease, named 'coronavirus disease 2019' 
(COVID-19). Several mechanisms contribute to the reduction in serotonin levels, 
such as the impaired absorption of dietary tryptophan, hindered serotonin 
transport via platelets, and increased activity of an enzyme responsible for 
breaking down serotonin. Individuals seeking treatment for long COVID-19 had 
lower serotonin levels in their blood than those who had fully recovered from 
the infection. Furthermore, patients with long COVID-19 also had reduced 
tryptophan levels. The potential benefits of dietary supplementation with 
tryptophan or the use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) to 
improve cognitive impairments and depressive and anxiety disorders in long-term 
COVID-19 patients. The findings support the immune response's pivotal role in 
modulating serotonin levels and further highlight the intricate connection 
between the immune system and neurotransmitter regulation.

Â© Chonnam Medical Journal, 2024.

DOI: 10.4068/cmj.2024.60.3.141
PMCID: PMC11458317
PMID: 39381125

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT: None declared.