9. Cerebellum. 2024 Oct 9. doi: 10.1007/s12311-024-01751-5. Online ahead of
print.

Impact of SARS-CoV-2 Infection on Essential Tremor: A Retrospective Clinical and 
Kinematic Analysis.

Costa D(1), Grandolfo S(2), Birreci D(2), Angelini L(1), Passaretti M(2)(3), 
Cannavacciuolo A(1), Martini A(2), De Riggi M(2), Paparella G(1)(2), Fasano 
A(4)(5), Bologna M(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Neuromed, Pozzilli (IS), Italy.
(2)Department of Human Neurosciences, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden.
(4)Krembil Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)Edmond J. Safra Program in Parkinson's Disease, Morton and Gloria Shulman 
Movement Disorders Clinic, Toronto Western Hospital, Division of Neurology, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(6)IRCCS Neuromed, Pozzilli (IS), Italy. matteo.bologna@uniroma1.it.
(7)Department of Human Neurosciences, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy. 
matteo.bologna@uniroma1.it.

In the past few years, SARS-CoV-2 infection has substantially impacted public 
health. Alongside respiratory symptoms, some individuals have reported new 
neurological manifestations or a worsening of pre-existing neurological 
conditions. We previously documented two cases of essential tremor (ET) who 
experienced a deterioration in tremor following SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, 
the effects of SARS-CoV-2 on ET remain largely unexplored. This study aims to 
evaluate the impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on a relatively broad sample of ET 
patients by retrospectively comparing their clinical and kinematic data 
collected before and after the exposure to SARS-CoV-2. We surveyed to evaluate 
the impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on tremor features in ET. Subsequently, we 
retrospectively analysed clinical and kinematic data, including accelerometric 
recordings of postural and kinetic tremor. We included 36 ET patients (14 
females with a mean age of 71.1 ± 10.6 years). Among the 25 patients who 
reported SARS-CoV-2 infection, 11 (44%) noted a subjective worsening of tremor. 
All patients reporting subjective tremor worsening also exhibited symptoms of 
long COVID, whereas the prevalence of these symptoms was lower (50%) in those 
without subjective exacerbation. The retrospective analysis of clinical data 
revealed a tremor deterioration in infected patients, which was not observed in 
non-infected patients. Finally, kinematic analysis revealed substantial 
stability of tremor features in both groups. The study highlighted a potential 
correlation between the SARS-CoV-2 infection and clinical worsening of ET. Long 
COVID contributes to a greater impact of tremor on the daily life of ET 
patients.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12311-024-01751-5
PMID: 39382809